.TH MONKEYSPHERE-HOST "8" "January 2010" "monkeysphere" "System Commands"

.SH NAME

monkeysphere\-host \- Monkeysphere host key administration tool.

.SH SYNOPSIS

.B monkeysphere\-host \fIsubcommand\fP [\fIargs\fP]

.SH DESCRIPTION

\fBMonkeysphere\fP is a framework to leverage the OpenPGP web of trust
for SSH and TLS key\-based authentication.

\fBmonkeysphere\-host\fP stores and manages OpenPGP certificates for
various services offered by the host.

Most subcommands take a KEYID argument, which identifies (by OpenPGP
key ID (e.g. 0xDEADBEEF) or full OpenPGP fingerprint) which
certificate is to be operated upon.  If only one certificate is
currently managed by \fBmonkeysphere\-host\fP, the KEYID argument may
be omitted, and \fBmonkeysphere\-host\fP will operate on it.

.SH SUBCOMMANDS

\fBmonkeysphere\-host\fP takes various subcommands:
.TP
.B import\-key FILE SCHEME://HOSTNAME[:PORT]
Import a PEM\-encoded host secret key from file FILE.  If FILE is
`\-', then the key will be imported from stdin.  Only RSA keys are
supported at the moment.  SCHEME://HOSTNAME[:PORT] is used to specify
the scheme (e.g. ssh or https), fully\-qualified hostname (and port)
used in the user ID of the new OpenPGP key (e.g. ssh://example.net or
https://www.example.net).  If PORT is not specified, then no port is
added to the user ID, which means the default port for that service
(e.g. 22 for ssh) is assumed.  `i' may be used in place of
`import\-key'.
.TP
.B show\-keys [KEYID ...]
Output information about the OpenPGP certificate(s) for services
offered by the host, including their KEYIDs.  If no KEYID is specified
(or if the special string `\-\-all' is used), output information about
all certificates managed by \fBmonkeysphere\-host\fP.  `s' may be used
in place of `show\-keys'.
.TP
.B set\-expire EXPIRE [KEYID]
Extend the validity of the OpenPGP certificate specified until EXPIRE
from the present.  Expiration is specified as with GnuPG (measured
from today's date):
.nf
         0 = key does not expire
      <n>  = key expires in n days
      <n>w = key expires in n weeks
      <n>m = key expires in n months
      <n>y = key expires in n years
.fi
`e' may be used in place of `set\-expire'.
.TP
.B add\-servicename SCHEME://HOSTNAME[:PORT] [KEYID]
Add a service\-specific user ID to the specified certificate.  For
example, the operator of `https://example.net' may wish to add an
additional servicename of `https://www.example.net' to the certificate
corresponding to the secret key used by the TLS\-enabled web server.
`add\-name' or `n+' may be used in place of `add\-servicename'.
.TP
.B revoke\-servicename SCHEME://HOSTNAME[:PORT] [KEYID]
Revoke a service\-specific user ID from the specified certificate.
`revoke\-name' or `n\-' may be used in place of `revoke\-servicename'.
.TP
.B add\-revoker REVOKER_KEYID|FILE [KEYID]
Add a revoker to the specified OpenPGP certificate.  The revoker can
be specified by their own REVOKER_KEYID (in which case it will be
loaded from an OpenPGP keyserver), or by specifying a path to a file
containing the revoker's OpenPGP certificate, or by specifying `\-' to
load from stdin.  `r+' may be be used in place of `add\-revoker'.
.TP
.B revoke\-key [KEYID]
Generate (with the option to publish) a revocation certificate for
given OpenPGP certificate.  If such a certificate is published, the
given key will be permanently revoked, and will no longer be accepted
by monkeysphere\-enabled clients.  This subcommand will ask you a
series of questions, and then generate a key revocation certificate,
sending it to stdout.  You might want to store these certificates
safely offline, to publish in case of compromise).  If you explicitly
tell it to publish the revocation certificate immediately, it will
send it to the public keyservers.  PUBLISH THESE CERTIFICATES ONLY IF
YOU ARE SURE THE CORRESPONDING KEY WILL NEVER BE RE\-USED!
.TP
.B publish\-keys [KEYID ...]
Publish the specified OpenPGP certificates to the public keyservers.
If the special string `\-\-all' is specified, all of the host's
OpenPGP certificates will be published.  `p' may be used in place of
`publish\-keys'.  NOTE: that there is no way to remove a key from the
public keyservers once it is published!
.TP
.B version
Show the monkeysphere version number.  `v' may be used in place of
`version'.
.TP
.B help
Output a brief usage summary.  `h' or `?' may be used in place of
`help'.
.TP
.B diagnostics
Review the state of the monkeysphere server host key and report on
suggested changes.  Among other checks, this includes making sure
there is a valid host key, that the key is not expired, that the sshd
configuration points to the right place, etc.  `d' may be used in
place of `diagnostics'.

.SH SETUP SSH SERVER CERTIFICATES

To enable users to verify your SSH host's key via the monkeysphere, an
OpenPGP certificate must be made out of the host's RSA ssh key, and
the certificate must be published to the Web of Trust.  Certificate
publication is not done by default.  The first step is to import the
host's ssh key into a monkeysphere\-style OpenPGP certificate.  This
is done with the import\-key command.  For example:

# monkeysphere\-host import\-key /etc/ssh/ssh_host_rsa_key ssh://host.example.org

On most systems, sshd's RSA secret key is stored at
/etc/ssh/ssh_host_rsa_key.

See PUBLISHING AND CERTIFYING MONKEYSPHERE SERVICE CERTIFICATES for
how to make sure your users can verify the ssh service offered by your
host once the key is imported into \fBmonkeysphere\-host\fP.

.SH SETUP WEB SERVER CERTIFICATES

You can set up your HTTPS\-capable web server so that your users can
verify it via the monkeysphere, without changing your server's
software at all.  You just need access to a (PEM\-encoded) version of
the server's RSA secret key (most secret keys are already stored
PEM\-encoded).  The first step is to import the web server's key into
a monkeysphere\-style OpenPGP certificate.  This is done with the
import\-key command.  For example:

# monkeysphere\-host import\-key /etc/ssl/private/host.example.net\-key.pem https://host.example.net

If you don't know where the web server's key is stored on your
machine, consult the configuration files for your web server.
Debian\-based systems using the `ssl\-cert' packages often have a
default self\-signed certificate stored in
`/etc/ssl/private/ssl\-cert\-snakeoil.key' ; if you're using that key,
your users are getting browser warnings about it.  You can keep using
the same key, but help them use the OpenPGP WoT to verify that it does
belong to your web server by using something like:

# monkeysphere\-host import\-key /etc/ssl/private/ssl\-cert\-snakeoil.key https://$(hostname \-\-fqdn)

If you offer multiple HTTPS websites using the same secret key, you
should add the additional website names with the `add\-servicename'
subcommand.

See PUBLISHING AND CERTIFYING MONKEYSPHERE SERVICE CERTIFICATES (the
next section) for how to make sure your users can verify the https
service offered by your host once the key is imported and any extra
site names have been added.  Note that you can add or remove
additional servicenames at any time, but you'll need to certify any
new ones separately.

.SH PUBLISHING AND CERTIFYING MONKEYSPHERE SERVICE CERTIFICATES

Once the host key has been imported, the corresponding certificate
must be published to the Web of Trust so that users can retrieve the
cert when connecting to the host.  The host certificates are published
to the keyserver with the publish\-key command:

$ monkeysphere\-host publish\-key \-\-all

In order for users accessing the system to be able to identify the
host's service via the monkeysphere, at least one person (e.g. a
server admin) will need to sign the host's certificate.  This is done
using standard OpenPGP keysigning techniques.  Usually: pull the
host's OpenPGP certificate from the keyserver, verify and sign it, and
then re\-publish your signature.  More than one person can certify any
certificate.  Please see
http://web.monkeysphere.info/signing\-host\-keys/ for more information
and details.  Once an admin's signature is published, users accessing
the host can use the certificate to validate the host's key without
having to manually check the host key's fingerprint (in the case of
ssh) or without seeing a nasty "security warning" in their browsers
(in the case of https).

.SH SECURITY CONSIDERATIONS

Note that \fBmonkeysphere\-host\fP currently caches a copy of all
imported secret keys (stored in OpenPGP form for future manipulation)
in /var/lib/monkeysphere/host/secring.gpg.  Cleartext backups of this
file could expose secret key material if not handled sensitively.

.SH ENVIRONMENT

The following environment variables will override those specified in
the config file (defaults in parentheses):
.TP
MONKEYSPHERE_LOG_LEVEL
Set the log level.  Can be SILENT, ERROR, INFO, VERBOSE, DEBUG, in
increasing order of verbosity. (INFO)
.TP
MONKEYSPHERE_KEYSERVER
OpenPGP keyserver to use. (pool.sks\-keyservers.net)
.TP
MONKEYSPHERE_PROMPT
If set to `false', never prompt the user for confirmation. (true)

.SH FILES

.TP
/etc/monkeysphere/monkeysphere\-host.conf
System monkeysphere\-host config file.
.TP
/var/lib/monkeysphere/host_keys.pub.pgp
A world\-readable copy of the host's OpenPGP certificates in ASCII
armored format.  This includes the certificates (including the public
keys, servicename\-based User IDs, and most recent relevant
self\-signatures) corresponding to every key used by
Monkeysphere\-enabled services on the host.
.TP
/var/lib/monkeysphere/host/
A locked directory (readable only by the superuser) containing copies
of all imported secret keys (this is the host's GNUPGHOME directory).

.SH AUTHOR

This man page was written by:
Jameson Rollins <jrollins@finestructure.net>,
Daniel Kahn Gillmor <dkg@fifthhorseman.net>,
Matthew Goins <mjgoins@openflows.com>

.SH SEE ALSO

.BR monkeysphere (1),
.BR monkeysphere (7),
.BR gpg (1),
.BR monkeysphere\-authentication (8),
.BR ssh (1),
.BR sshd (8)
