I would like to know, at INFO (default) log level, when the 
monkeyspehere makes a "real" modification to my known\_hosts file; that 
is, when it adds or deletes a key.

Apparently this is hard because monkeysphere is currently configured to 
delete all keys and then add good keys, so a key added for the first 
time seems to the monkeysphere very similar to a key re-added ten 
seconds after last login.

Still, from a UI perspective, I want to know what monkeysphere is doing.

------

It looks like jrollins committed a change for reporting at INFO level
when a host key gets added by the monkeysphere:
2459fa3ea277d7b9289945748619eab1e3441e5c

When i connect to a host whose key is not already present in my
known_hosts file, i get the following to stderr:

    ms: * new key for squeak.fifthhorseman.net added to known_hosts file.

This doesn't fully close this bug, because we aren't notifying on key
deletion, afaict.

------

So current log level DEBUG will output a message if the known host
file has been modified.  If the issue is that you want to know at the
default log level everytime the known\_hots file is modified, then we
should just move this message to INFO instead of debug, and then maybe
remove the message that I added above.  I was under the impression
that the issue was more about notification that a *new* key was added
to the known\_hosts file, and therefore the new INFO message above
fixed that problem.  Should we do this instead?

In general, more verbose log levels *do* tell the user what the
monkeysphere is doing.  Moving to DEBUG log level will tell you pretty
much everything that happens.  I do *not* think that this should be
the default log level, though.

------

I wouldn't want to see an extremely verbose default log level.  But i
do think that saying something like "key blah blah blah was stripped
from your known\_hosts file because it was expired" (for example)
would be useful.  I think this case would occur infrequently enough
that it is worth reporting in the UI at the regular log level.

  --dkg
