.TH AGENT-TRANSFER "1" "Jan 2019" "monkeysphere" "User Commands"

.SH NAME

agent-transfer - copy a secret key from gpg-agent to ssh-agent

.SH SYNOPSIS

.B agent-transfer [\fIoptions\fP] \fIKEYGRIP\fP [\fICOMMENT\fP]

.SH DESCRIPTION

\fBagent-transfer\fP extracts a secret key from a modern version of
GnuPG agent and sends it to the running SSH agent.  This is useful for
people whose keys are managed in the long-term by GnuPG's gpg-agent,
but who prefer the semantics of OpenSSH's ssh-agent for regular use.

\fBagent-transfer\fP was written as part of the monkeysphere project.

The \fBKEYGRIP\fP should be specified as a sequence of 20 hexadecimal
characters.  If you aren't sure of the keygrip, you can inspect the
output of:

        gpg \-\-with\-keygrip \-\-list\-secret\-keys

The \fBCOMMENT\fP is optional, and will be stored alongside the key in
ssh-agent.  It must not start with a \-, to avoid being mistaken for
an option.

.SH OPTIONS

\fBagent-transfer\fP also accepts options that would normally be
passed to \fBssh\-add\fP(1) to constrain the use of the transferred
key:

.TP
\-c
Indicates that added identities should be subject to confirmation
before being used for authentication.

.TP
\-t SECONDS
Indicates that the key should have a lifetime of SECONDS in the
running ssh\-agent.

.SH FILES

.TP
~/.gnupg/S.gpg\-agent
The socket where gpg\-agent is listening.  This is the "standard
socket" for modern GnuPG.

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES

.TP
GNUPGHOME
The GnuPG home directory, where the standard socket for gpg\-agent
lives.  If this is not set, it is assumed to be ~/.gnupg.

.TP
SSH_AUTH_SOCK
Specifies the location where the running ssh-agent is present.


.P
Several other environment variables are also passed in some form to
the gpg\-agent to help it figure out how to run a sensible pinentry,
including GPG_TTY, TERM, DISPLAY, XAUTHORITY, GTK_IM_MODULE,
DBUS_SESSION_BUS_ADDRESS, and LANG.

.SH BUGS

\fBagent-transfer\fP can only work with RSA and Ed25519 keys.  Support
for other key types not yet implemented.  Patches welcome!

.SH AUTHOR

Written by:
Daniel Kahn Gillmor <dkg@fifthhorseman.net>

.SH SEE ALSO

.BR monkeysphere (7),
.BR ssh (1),
.BR ssh\-add (1),
.BR ssh\-agent (1),
.BR gpg (1)
.BR gpg\-agent (1),
