.\"  -*- nroff -*-
.Dd $Mdocdate: March 1, 2009 $
.Dt OPENPGP2SSH 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
openpgp2ssh
.Nd translate OpenPGP keys to SSH keys
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm openpgp2ssh < mykey.gpg 
.Pp
.Nm gpg \-\-export $KEYID | openpgp2ssh $KEYID
.Pp
.Nm gpg \-\-export\-secret\-key $KEYID | openpgp2ssh $KEYID
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
takes an OpenPGP-formatted primary key and associated
subkeys on standard input, and spits out the requested equivalent
SSH-style key on standard output.
.Pp
If the data on standard input contains no subkeys, you can invoke
.Nm
without arguments.  If the data on standard input contains multiple
keys (e.g. a primary key and associated subkeys), you must specify a
specific OpenPGP key identifier as the first argument to indicate
which key to export.  The key ID is normally the 40 hex digit OpenPGP
fingerprint of the key or subkey desired, but
.Nm
will accept as few as the last 8 digits of the fingerprint as a key
ID.
.Pp
If the input contains an OpenPGP RSA public key, it will be converted
to the OpenSSH-style single-line keystring, prefixed with the key type
(`ssh\-rsa').  This format is suitable (with minor alterations) for
insertion into known_hosts files and authorized_keys files.
.Pp
If the input contains an OpenPGP RSA secret key, it will be converted
to the equivalent PEM-encoded private key.
.Pp
.Nm
is part of the
.Xr monkeysphere 7
framework for providing a PKI for SSH.
.Sh CAVEATS
The keys produced by this process are stripped of all identifying
information, including certifications, self-signatures, etc.  This is
intentional, since ssh attaches no inherent significance to these
features.
.Pp
.Nm
will produce output for any requested RSA key.  This means, among
other things, that it will happily export revoked keys, unverifiable
keys, expired keys, etc.  Make sure you do your own key validation
before using this tool!
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Nm gpg \-\-export\-secret\-key $KEYID | openpgp2ssh $KEYID | ssh\-add \-c /dev/stdin
.Pp
This pushes the secret key into the active
.Xr ssh\-agent 1 . 
Tools such as 
.Xr ssh 1
which know how to talk to the 
.Xr ssh\-agent 1
can now rely on the key.
.Sh AUTHOR
.Nm
and this man page were written by Daniel Kahn Gillmor
<dkg@fifthhorseman.net>.
.Sh BUGS
.Nm
only works with RSA keys.  DSA keys are the only other key type
available in both OpenPGP and SSH, but they are currently unsupported
by this utility.
.Pp
.Nm
only accepts raw OpenPGP packets on standard input.  It does not
accept ASCII-armored input.
.Nm
Currently only exports into formats used by the OpenSSH.
It should support other key output formats, such as those used by
.Xr lsh 1
and
.Xr putty 1 .
.Pp
Secret key output is currently not passphrase-protected.
.Pp
.Nm
currently cannot handle passphrase-protected secret keys on input.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr pem2openpgp 1 ,
.Xr monkeysphere 1 ,
.Xr monkeysphere 7 ,
.Xr ssh 1 ,
.Xr monkeysphere-authentication 8 ,
.Xr monkeysphere-host 8
